---
layout: page
title: About me
permalink: /about/
---

I have a background in experimental (neuro)-biology but I am now a __Bioinformatics Data Analyst__ with seven years of experience in the analysis and integration of multiple types of next generation sequencing (NGS) data [CV]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link AntonioDominguesCurriculumVitae.pdf %}), including long-reads. I get a kick out of data visualization and creating plots to communicate results.

Even though it has been a while since I last donned a bench coat, My previous experience in bench work is quite useful when communicating data analysis and results with collaborators - and understanding their requests. I very much see my job as translating collaborators' research goals into testable hypothesis, and ultimately interesting and novel findings. I even help with experimental design quite often (as it should be).

My research focus has been on RNA biology and regulation of gene expression, but I have a curious mind and crave challenges. 


### How I came to data analysis

I used to do a lot of pipetting. Like 96-well plate PCR 'a lot'. Early during my postdoc, I decided that I wanted to have control over analysis of the data generated by high-throughput experiments. Mistakes happen and will always happen, but I would rather be able to detect and fix them myself. So I started learning scripting, and suddenly the time spent on the computer analyzing data became longer and, despite all the library compiling frustrations, more enjoyable.

_The pipette lost. Long live the keyboard._


### Why this site?

This blog is a collection of tips, hints, and ramblings that detail my journeyy from qPCR and cell culture to R scripting and bedtools - sometimes a combination of both. A journey to the dark side from the perspective of a bench biologist. It is intended primarily as personal notes for future reference.


### Food

I like eating, cooking and sharing recipes so I created a food blog: [Food For the People](http://weekendfamily.github.io/foodforthepeople). Most of them are paleo and low-carb inspired, but there is also a lot of traditional portuguese cooking. Have a look.


### Contact me

Find me on [twitter][twitter] / [Github][github] / [LinkedIn][linkedin] or just drop me a line at 
[amjdomingues@gmail.com](amjdomingues@gmail.com).


[github]: https://github.com/adomingues
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/keyboardpipette
[linkedin]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/antonio-domingues/
